.\" Copyright (C) 2024-2025 SUSE LLC <petr.pavlu@suse.com>
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later
.TH KSYMTYPES 1
.SH NAME
ksymtypes \- a tool to work with Linux\-kernel symtypes files
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBksymtypes\fR [\fIGENERAL\-OPTION\fR...] {\fBconsolidate\fR | \fBcompare\fR } [\fICOMMAND\-OPTION\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBksymtypes\fR is a tool that provides functionality to work with symtypes files. These files
describe the Application Binary Interface (ABI) of the kernel and its modules. The data is produced
by \fBgenksyms\fR utilities from the kernel tree.
.PP
The tool primarily operates with sets of symtypes files as they are produced during a single build
of the Linux kernel. Each such set describes the ABI of a specific kernel and its modules. The tool
refers to this set as a "symtypes corpus".
.PP
The provided functionality is split into several integrated commands. The currently available
commands are \fBconsolidate\fR and \fBcompare\fR. The \fBconsolidate\fR command takes a symtypes
corpus composed of a set of symtypes files and produces its consolidated variant by merging
duplicated types. The \fBcompare\fR command shows differences between two symtypes corpuses.
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
Enable debug output.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display global help information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Output version information and exit.
.SH CONSOLIDATE COMMAND
\fBksymtypes\fR \fBconsolidate\fR [\fICONSOLIDATE\-OPTION\fR...] \fIPATH\fR
.PP
The \fBconsolidate\fR command reads symtypes files from the path specified on the command line,
consolidates their contents by merging duplicate types and writes the output to the specified file.
The input path should point to a directory that the command recursively searches for all symtypes
files. In a typical use case, this will be a build directory of the Linux kernel.
.PP
Available options:
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help information for the command and exit.
.TP
\fB\-j\fR \fINUM\fR, \fB\-\-jobs\fR=\fINUM\fR
Use \fINUM\fR workers to perform the operation simultaneously.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIFILE\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Write the result in \fIFILE\fR, instead of the standard output.
.SH COMPARE COMMAND
\fBksymtypes\fR \fBcompare\fR [\fICOMPARE\-OPTION\fR...] \fIPATH\fR \fIPATH2\fR
.PP
The \fBcompare\fR command shows differences between two symtypes corpuses. A corpus can be specified
by a directory containing symtypes files or by a consolidated symtypes file. In a typical use case,
the first input will point to a reference consolidated symtypes corpus and the second input will
point to data from a new build of the Linux kernel.
.PP
Available options:
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help information for the command and exit.
.TP
\fB\-j\fR \fINUM\fR, \fB\-\-jobs\fR=\fINUM\fR
Use \fINUM\fR workers to perform the operation simultaneously.
.SH EXAMPLES
Build the Linux kernel and create a reference consolidated symtypes corpus:
.IP
.EX
$ cd <linux\-kernel\-directory>
$ make O=build ...
$ ksymtypes consolidate \-\-output=reference.kabi build/
.EE
.PP
Build a new version of the Linux kernel and compare its ABI with the previous reference:
.IP
.EX
$ cd <linux\-kernel\-directory> && git pull
$ make O=build ...
$ ksymtypes compare reference.kabi build/
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBksymtypes\fR(5)
